# JavaScript Prototype in Plain Language
--------------------------------------
## Two interrelated concepts with prototype in JavaScript[[..]](http://javascriptissexy.com/javascript-prototype-in-plain-detailed-language/)

### The first concept
First, every JavaScript function has a **prototype property** (this property is empty by default), and you attach properties and methods on this prototype property when you want to implement inheritance. 
This prototype property is not enumerable; that is, it isn’t accessible in a for/in loop. 
But Firefox and most versions of Safari and Chrome have a **\_\_proto\_\_** “pseudo” property (an alternative syntax) that allows you to access an object’s prototype property. 

You will likely never use this **\_\_proto\_\_** pseudo property, 
but you should know that it exists and it is simply a way to access an object’s prototype property in some browsers.
The prototype property is used primarily for inheritance; you add methods and properties on a function’s prototype property to make those methods and properties available to instances of that function.

Consider this simple example of inheritance with the prototype property (more on inheritance later):
```javascript
function PrintStuff (myDocuments) {
​this.documents = myDocuments;
}
​
​// We add the print () method to PrintStuff prototype property so that other instances (objects) can inherit it:​
PrintStuff.prototype.print = function () {
console.log(this.documents);
}
​
​// Create a new object with the PrintStuff () constructor, 
// thus allowing this new object to inherit PrintStuff's properties and methods.​
​var newObj = new PrintStuff ("I am a new Object and I can print.");
​
​// newObj inherited all the properties and methods, including the print method, from the PrintStuff function. 
// Now newObj can call print directly, even though we never created a print () method on it.​
newObj.print (); //I am a new Object and I can print.
```
### The second
The second concept with prototype in JavaScript is the prototype attribute. Think of the prototype attribute as a characteristic of the object; this characteristic tells us the object’s “parent”. In simple terms: An object’s prototype attribute points to the object’s “parent”—the object it inherited its properties from. The prototype attribute is normally referred to as the prototype object, and it is set automatically when you create a new object.To expound on this: Every object inherits properties from some other object, and it is this other object that is the object’s prototype attribute or “parent.” (You can think of the prototype attribute as the lineage or the parent). In the example code above, newObj‘s prototype is PrintStuff.prototype.
Note: All objects have attributes just like object properties have attributes. And the object attributes are prototype, class, and extensible attributes. It is this prototype attribute that we are discussing in this second example.

Also note that the **\_\_proto\_\_** “pseudo” property contains an object’s prototype object (the parent object it inherited its methods and properties from).

So, there are **two general** ways an object’s prototype attribute is set when an object is created:

* If an object is created with an object literal (var newObj = {}), it inherits properties from Object.prototype and we say its prototype object (or prototype attribute) is Object.prototype.
* If an object is created from a constructor function such as new Object (), new Fruit () or new Array () or new Anything (), it inherits from that constructor (Object (), Fruit (), Array (), or Anything ()). For example, with a function such as Fruit (), each time we create a new instance of Fruit (var aFruit = new Fruit ()), the new instance’s prototype is assigned the prototype from the Fruit constructor, which is Fruit.prototype.Any object that was created with new Array () will have Array.prototype as its prototype. An object created with new Fruit () will have Fruit.prototype as its prototype. And any object created with the Object constructor (Obj (), such as var anObj = new Object() ) inherits from Object.prototype.
